HUANG WEIXI
HP: +65 83460501 | Email: weixihuang@u.nus.edu
EDUCATION
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SINGAPORE Aug 2024 - May 2028
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (HONS)
Major in Physics, minor in Mathematics
 
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Centre for Quantum Technologies, Singapore, UROPS Project Jan 2026 - Present
Supervisor: Prof. Dzmitry Matsukevich
Designed a compact (25 × 50 cm) and modular optical breadboard for stabilising a 369 nm laser used 
in trapped ion (Yb+) quantum computing.
Optimised optical layout using PyOpticL to minimise footprint while preserving optical performance.
Aligned optical setup on vibration-isolated optical table for stable beam propagation and cavity 
coupling.
Processed cavity error signals and implemented feedback control for laser locking.
 
Astar Q.InC, Research Assistant Aug 2025 - Nov 2025
Supervisor: Dr. Aaron Lau
Gained hands-on experience in micro/nanofabrication processes, including laser lithography, 
Nanofrazor, metal deposition, and liftoff techniques for 2D material-based devices. 
Gained understanding of complete device fabrication workflow from material growth/transfer to 
electrode definition and characterization.
Optimized the PPC-based lithography and plasma etching process for 2D material devices, resulting in 
much cleaner device interfaces compared to conventional PMMA-based methods.
 
NUS Department of Physics, Research Assistant Jan 2025 - Oct 2025
Supervisor: Dr. Haydar Sahin
Studied new topological circuits with memristor emulator under guidance of Prof. Lee Ching Hua and 
Dr. Haydar Sahin, to build a robust circuits which can memorize the topological phase of the circuits.
Gained experience on literature review and using LTspice and Python to simulate physical models.
 
Guangzhou Fiber Products Testing and Research Institute, Research 
ParticipantJul 2022 - Dec 2022
Supervisor: Dr. Luo Jun
Collaborated with senior engineer Dr. Luo Jun to advance the biodegradable plastic film testing system 
for agricultural applications.
Conducted mechanical performance and moisture permeability tests, achieving a 20% reduction in test 
cycle time.
Validated experimental methodologies, improving data reliability and reporting.
Developed literature review frameworks and research plans, ensuring efficient information synthesis.
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Institute of Special Equipment Inspection and Research, Intern 
EngineerJul 2025
Developed proficiency in the ability to write experimental reports and test reports.
Assisted in designing research methodologies and protocols.
 Gained insight into the graphene testing process and familiarized with Raman spectroscopy, AFM, 
and XRD operations.
 
EXPERIENCE
Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Institute of CNS Regeneration, Jun 2023Academic Visit
 Engaged in research and study exchange activities at prominent research institutes, including the 
Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Institute of CNS Regeneration. 
 Received guidance from Dr Martin G Banwell, a fellow of the Australian Academy of Science.  
 
LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE
Organiser, Donation of Masks to Medical Institutions Sep 2021
  Led a fundraising initiative to procure and distribute 2,000 medical masks to hospitals during the 
COVID-19 crisis.
  Coordinated logistics to ensure timely delivery to the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University and Central Hospital of Suizhou City.
 
VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE
 Dedicated over 187 hours to community service initiatives, impacting public health, education, and 
environmental projects.
 
KEY SKILLS
Programming Languages: Python (data analysis, scripting, automation), Mathematica, R
Engineering Skills: LTspice, CAD drawing, Pyopticl
Laboratory Techniques: Experimental Design, Data Analysis, Cleanroom fabrication for materials and 
devices, Optical table setup and alignment
Soft Skills: Leadership, Communication, Team Collaboration
Language: Mandarin, Cantonese, English